---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: So Why Am I Taking This Class?
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-09-01
labels:
  - ITM 352
---

The answer is a simple one: I need it for my current degree!  I also do want to learn more about the software side of computers as well, since I am quite familiar with the hardware of computers thanks to having built a few for myself and some friends.  I'll admit, it is a frustrating experience to learn things like using GitHub -- in fact, this is actually the second time I had to re-write my essay and the fourth time I had to re-do the Techfolio project, so naturally I can only go up from here.

As for why I chose to get an MIS degree, that is also another easy question to answer: it was the quickest way for me to get any sort of IT degree when I started going back to college a couple years back.  I've always had a fascination with tech when I was younger since I love knowing how things are made and how they work because it was like magic to me -- I still remember taking apart a dead gaming laptop from almost a decade ago and being surprised at how everything was built and connected to each other.  Overtime, that fascination slowly became a passion over the years; my first paycheck went to building my first computer, I started to watch a lot more tech Youtubers, and before I knew it I was studying for my ITF+ certification and now studying for my A+ cert and getting a MIS degree.

That about sums up how I got here.  If you managed to get this far, thank you for taking the time to read through this little essay and I hope you have a wonderful day.
